= The Divmod Fan Club =

Do you love Divmod's code?

Do you have a poster of JP on your wall?

Has work you've done using a Divmod project made you fantastically wealthy,
such that you don't know what to do with all your extra disposable income?

''Now you know.''

== Joining Up ==

[http://divmod.org:8080/signup Join the club!]

We offer a few different levels of membership.

 * Bronze Membership - $10 per month - ''Buy Glyph enough caffeine to get through one average day.''

 * Silver Membership - $25 per month - ''Take JP out to a restaurant.''

 * Gold Membership - $100 per month - ''Pay for Allen's cell phone calls to Divmod HQ.''

 * Platinum Membership - $250 per month - ''Buy Moe's groceries for a month.''

 * Mithril Membership - more than $1000 per month (email to sales@divmod.com) - ''Buy Amir a pony.''

== Huh What?! ==

Divmod developers have been heard to loudly complain that we are not being
commercially compensated for our open-source offerings.  Our overwhelmingly
generous developer community responded: before, there was actually no way for
happy users of our software to pay us for it - and they want to!

So, we've created the Divmod Fan Club, or the 'DMFC', to give those users a way
to pay back, and a way for us to very publicly say 'thank you!'

== It's Awesome ==

Members of the club who sign up for one of our Divmod commercial services (such
as the soon-to-be-re-launched [http://divmod.com/ Divmod Mail]) will occasionally get special
treats, early access to new features, and extra goodies not available to the
general public.

Eventually they will also receive a 'badge' displayed next to their user-icon
in public areas.

Starting at PyCon 2006, the club will have monthly meetings over IRC where
Divmod will propose a group of open-source features to be prioritized.  Club
members will be allowed to vote on the order those features will be implemented
in.

Members will be allowed a number of votes corresponding to the number of
dollars per month that their membership costs, except Mithril members, who
receive a maximum of 250 votes each, or can instead choose to apply their
membership fees directly to the expense of implementing features of their
choice.

Additionally, since we are currently using this club to beta-test our billing
system, members who sign up during the beta period (prior to the first day of
PyCon) will receive an 'arcanite alloy' bonus, and be allowed 5 additional
votes for their membership level during the first 3 meetings.  Members who are
currently subscribers to [http://divmod.com Divmod Mail] will additionally
receive this bonus indefinitely.

